src/emdawnwebgpu/pkg/README.md, before:

# emdawnwebgpu

emdawnwebgpu is Dawn's implementation of webgpu.h for Emscripten (on top of the
WebGPU JS API). This package includes all of the necessary files to use
<webgpu/webgpu.h> and Dawn's <webgpu/webgpu_cpp.h> in Emscripten.

(Note, this is meant only to be used from a pre-built package directory.
It won't work if included directly from Dawn's source tree.)

Find new versions of this package at <https://github.com/google/dawn/releases>.
Report issues at <https://crbug.com/new?component=1570785&noWizard=True>.

## How to use this package

To add the include path for `<webgpu/webgpu.h>` and `<webgpu/webgpu_cpp.h>`,
pass this flag to `emcc` during both compile and link:

    --use-port=path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/emdawnwebgpu.port.py

If (and only if) using Emscripten `<=4.0.7`, also pass this flag during link:

    --closure-args=--externs=path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/webgpu/src/webgpu-externs.js

## Port options

Options can be set by appending `:key1=value:key2=value` to `--use-port`.
For information about port options, run:

    emcc --use-port=path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/emdawnwebgpu.port.py:help

### C++ bindings

By default, C++ bindings are provided in the include path. Note that unlike
`webgpu.h`, these are not intended to be fully stable. If you don't want these
for any reason (you have custom bindings, you're using a pinned snapshot of
`webgpu_cpp.h`, etc.), you can set the option `cpp_bindings=false`:

    --use-port=path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/emdawnwebgpu.port.py:cpp_bindings=false

## Embuilder

If your build process needs a separate step to build the port before linking,
use Emscripten's `embuilder` (with `opt_level` set explicitly):

    embuilder build path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/emdawnwebgpu.port.py:opt_level=0
    embuilder build path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/emdawnwebgpu.port.py:opt_level=2

Commit message:

[emscripten][github] Include a "remote" emdawnwebgpu port in the release
Thanks to https://github.com/emscripten-core/emscripten/pull/24303
(which should be in the next Emscription release, 4.0.10), users can use
this new port format which just includes a pointer to a zip containing a
port file.

This change generates and releases a port file like the one used in
Emscripten, which can (1) be used instead of extracting the zip and (2)
be copied directly into Emscripten whenever we want to update its
version of `tools/ports/emdawnwebgpu.py`. It includes a full copy of the
package README as a docstring to make the port self-documenting.

Our version of Emscripten is still 4.0.8, but people can use this with
4.0.10+.

No-Try: true
Bug: 371024051
Bug: 415224043
Change-Id: I12ee39d68454d7e7dba56798864b39ade51862b0
Reviewed-on: https://dawn-review.googlesource.com/c/dawn/+/243214
Auto-Submit: Kai Ninomiya <kainino@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Loko Kung <lokokung@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Kai Ninomiya <kainino@chromium.org>

src/emdawnwebgpu/pkg/README.md, after:

# Emdawnwebgpu

Emdawnwebgpu is Dawn's implementation of webgpu.h for Emscripten (on top of the
WebGPU JS API). It is a fork of Emscripten's original `USE_WEBGPU` bindings,
and while it is maintained in Dawn, it works in any browser supporting WebGPU
(modulo individual feature support).

The package includes all of the necessary files to use
`<webgpu/webgpu.h>` and the Dawn-style `<webgpu/webgpu_cpp.h>` with Emscripten.

Find new versions of this package at <https://github.com/google/dawn/releases>.

If you find any issue with this release, please verify it in the latest release,
and then report it at <https://crbug.com/new?component=1570785&noWizard=True>.

## How to use this package

First, start with either:

- A "remote" port file `emdawnwebgpu-v*.port.py` (requires Emscripten 4.0.10+).
- An `emdawnwebgpu_pkg` containing a local port file `emdawnwebgpu.port.py`.
  (Either from a pre-built zip release, or from a Dawn build output directory.)

## How to use this package (local or remote)

Pass the following flag to `emcc`, during both compile and link, to set the
include paths and link the implementation:

    --use-port=path/to/emdawnwebgpu*.port.py

If (and only if) using Emscripten before 4.0.7, also pass this flag during link:

    --closure-args=--externs=path/to/emdawnwebgpu_pkg/webgpu/src/webgpu-externs.js

## Port options

Options can be set by appending `:key1=value:key2=value` to `--use-port`.
For information about port options, run:

    emcc --use-port=path/to/emdawnwebgpu*.port.py:help

### C++ bindings

By default, C++ bindings are provided in the include path. Note that unlike
`webgpu.h`, these are not intended to be fully stable. If you don't want these
for any reason (you have custom bindings, you're using a pinned snapshot of
`webgpu_cpp.h`, etc.), you can set the option `cpp_bindings=false`:

    --use-port=path/to/emdawnwebgpu*.port.py:cpp_bindings=false

## Embuilder

If your build process needs a separate step to build the port before linking,
use Emscripten's `embuilder` (with `opt_level` set explicitly):

    embuilder build path/to/emdawnwebgpu*.port.py:opt_level=0
    embuilder build path/to/emdawnwebgpu*.port.py:opt_level=2
